# Project-3-Pokemon
For this project, we chose to follow the data engineering track to create a website that would search through a Pokemon database and print out the name and various attack powers about the chosen Pokemon character. The website's goal was to create a visual interface that would search through a flask app, while the project’s goal was to create a backbone that could eventually be used to help people create teams of Pokemon characters by seeing statistics of each of the characters in one place. By creating this website, players are able to search up Pokemon characters that they are considering and learn about their attack powers in a concise and user-friendly manner.

In order to achieve this goal for our specific project, we chose to use a SQL database to practice what we learned in class, but also used python, HTML, and CSS to make the final project. The first thing that had to be done was to create the base app ‘app.py’ and get it to connect with a blank database in order to test if everything was running smoothly. From there, Adrian used psycopg2 as our non-class library to create basic endpoints to handle search queries and return the search results from the database. Meanwhile, Ahsun and Anisha used  two databases- one from Kaggle and one from PokemonDB (both linked below) in order to find Pokemon character data and cleaned them to have a similar format to each other and also fit the format needed for this project. Once they were cleaned, the final results were exported as two clean csv files, which Adrian then imported to PGAdmin to actually make the database where he combined on the variable ‘Name.’ Once the database was created, Adrian went through and linked the database directly to the flask app. From there, he worked on the final step which was to create the HTML page with a search bar and search button, which updated the endpoint of the app to search through the SQLdatabase and created a for loop that returned each column into the HTML page. For finishing touches, he used a CSS page to style the HTML page to fit the goal aesthetic of this project. In order for the user to use and interact with the project, all they would need to do is search up a Pokemon character into the website’s search bar, and the respective data about the Pokemon character and its damage power is returned.

The biggest ethical consideration we had to make during this project was where the data source is from. Because we did not use data from people, we did not have to worry about people’s privacy, and because we did not use data that would impact their day-to-day-lives, we did not have to worry about the data we were analyzing being taken out of context, or fear that our analysis would be. With that being said though, the one big ethical consideration was where the data was sourced from, but by using fictional characters from a popular video game, we ensured that all data we used was publicly available and that there were datasets that were presentable. This meant that we didn’t have to worry about the Pokemon licensing, and did not need to worry that our own data scraping would ruin the integrity of the data. 

References for data sources:
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rounakbanik/pokemon?resource=download
https://pokemondb.net/ 
Code Used:
ChatGPT for CSS page and HTML page
Flask Tutorial:  https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.3.x/tutorial/blog/#
